Connecting through communication.
For a leader like you in your new role, communication is the path,
the way; it is how you are going to connect and motivate your team and
communication is not just the transmission of data and information.
Communication is critical for task assignments and executing projects,
getting things done,
yet is one of the often most challenging leadership
skills because it is so easy to say, but not so easy to do.
Effective communication is far more than a one-way
street that starts with the leader.
Communication flows freely in both directions and in every circumstance,
in good times and in especially in challenging and bad times.
Whether spoken or written, and in spanning both words and actions,
the message must convey both your vision and the
organization's purpose; why we are doing this,
why is it important, and values too.
What too many people fail to appreciate is that the
message is not just what you say, but how you say it that is equally important.
Now might the leader be in fact the message?
Let's see.
The leader is the message.
Sharing information is critical,
but it is substantially less than half the battle.
Yes, you must communicate clearly about your team or business requirements,
but you cannot stop there.
Verbally and nonverbally, the way in which you communicate may be humble,
passionately, confidently, may have more impact than the words you choose.
Yes, content is important,
but you must always pay attention to the tone of your voice,
your facial expression, and your body language.
All of these things are as much the message as the words you speak.
Why are verbal and nonverbal cues so important, you ask?
Because we humans are just intuitive.
We constantly read and react in nonverbal cues and as a leader,
we have to be aware at all times of what we are projecting to others,
whether they see you as confident, optimistic,
tentative, or maybe worried.
All of the responsibilities of leadership,
particularly during challenging times,
communication is the most powerful and enduring.
As a leader,
you must inspire others through your words and actions and before you speak,
make sure you listen and observe.
Knowing your audience is as important as the message you are delivering.
Communication informs, persuades, guides and assures, as well as inspires.
You must be willing to reveal more of yourself and to
let others see you for who you are.
If you don't you will undermine your effectiveness as a leader
and your followers may soon drift elsewhere.
Now picture yourself on your first day at work in your new role as leader.
Nervous?
Unsure?
Is that the message you want to convey? Well, let me give you some guidance.